---
title: "Moving to Japan: an overview"
date: 2018-10-17 03:52:00
tags: [japan, me]
---

So it has been almost official: I will be moving to Japan. It all started in late May, 2018, but could trace back to mid 2017, when I graduated from CityU HK as an undergrad student. Back in the 4th year of university, when everyone faced a choice between getting another degree and getting a job, I chose the latter. Family reasons. I attempted to persuade myself into believing that China, my home country, had greater potentials and returning to it should benefit my career. Now from an objective perspective, both are true for China, yet I felt nothing but uncomfortable as I stayed longer here. 

There really are entertaining moments and comforting things here: the payroll looks good, stats say it should be the upper 10 percentile. I could gather together and hang out with my dearest friends more often, since most of them live  in the same city. People around me speak my mother language and communication is no problem. Discrimination still exists but not so severe as back in Hong Kong: they don't judge you by your hometown. 

But there are also the BAD parts, haunting me every single day, the dominating one being my realizing that China, contrary to my perception and what I have been taught, is not Rechtsstaat, "state based on justice and integrity". It is those two characteristics that I deem as vital rules of a civilized society. I believe in laws as the fundamental bounds that holds a modern society from falling apart, yet my country doesn't run on it. I see freedom and equality as essential components  for any livable society, yet this society doesn't have it. My belief in my home country and its society was finally torn down by the fact that Xi Jinping, president of CCCP, altered the Constitution in order to make lawful his staying in power forever. Fine, it's theoretical, he might just step down from office as every other president did, but why would he bother with the Constitution if he had no such preparations? 

Enough for my motivations. *(The audience of this article is my future self, and a very, very small number of my friends. Those motivations might discomfort a few of you. My apologies, but that's really what was in my mind.)* A certain day around 22nd May, I noticed one retweet in my Twitter timeline. It was a hiring letter from a Japan-based company's product manager. Hiring Engineers. Hiring Android Engineers. Sponsoring Visas. No strict Japanese requirements so long as you are fluent in English. That very moment I spoke to myself, 'You might not qualify this, you might get rejected right after sending your CV, but you're going to regret it for the rest of your life if you didn't even try.' Japan, was my postgraduate candidate country at that time. I've attended elementary Japanese courses back in my senior year of University, and have been investigating postgrad chances in Japan: I never made up my mind. Receiving education COSTS, and that would mean me asking for tuition fee and living costs, from my over-fifty-year-old parents. That was just not an option. I made myself a promise that I shall make them happy and worry-free, that's the very reason driving me back to home country, no way breaking that promise here. So I picked up the LaTeX workflow that I'd been used to back at the undergrad days, and updated my resumé, in English. I can still recall me working on that document on the CRH (China Railway Highspeed) train back to Tianjin, my hometown, where I used to live with my parents. The room provided for each passenger wasn't that friendly for working with a laptop, yet I recall clearly me convincing myself that, 'If I did not start this work here, I might procrastinate with this as I didn't like to face it, and I might miss this chance eventually.'

The application letter was sent out before the dawn of that Saturday. I got a confirmation reply the next Tuesday and another one the following day, stating that I've passed the document filtering. Following that I had one Skype call with my future manager and HR, one phone call as the technical interview, and finally one Skype call with my future boss. ‘It has been all settled. They want you.’, I congratulated myself as they gave me the spoken offer. *The following is too dramatic and embarrassing so make sure it is abridged if this article were meant to be read by anyone other my myself. * I clearly recall that I got the spoken offer on a Wednesday. The human resources manager promised me a written one in the next week. By the term ‘next week’, I supposed it would never be Friday. So I wrote to the HR manager asking when shall the offer letter arrive, out of anxiety. She replied as trying her best to deliver it by that Wednesday, which she failed. No news on that Thursday, not even by the noon of that Friday. I talked about it with my parents in my family chat group, father saw my anxiety, and he understood it. Never once had I explicitly expressed my affection for Japan the country, yet he noticed it, saying, ‘If that company really withdraws that offer, maybe we can consider going to Japan for postgraduate education?’ I could not hold my tears more, and asked for leave for the rest of the day, getting a ticked and heading hometown Tianjin to meet them. On the subway home, I received the written offer letter by email. ‘Get ready to quit your current job and prepare for moving.’, patience is a virtue. As one gets anxious, time really passes slower than normal.

Quit my job after proper handling of all work in progress, and started the visa application and, waiting for its result, which came out on this Monday: 15th Oct, 2018. I got the Certificate of Eligibility, and I shall work lawfully in Japan. 